Alif Laam, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum
Nazala alayka Al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqal Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrat Wa Al-Injeel
Min Qablu Hudal Lill-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Furqan
Inna Allatheena Kafaru Bi Ayatillahi Lahum Adhabu Shadeed
Wa Allahu Azizun Unthu Intiqam
Inna Allaha La Yakhda Alayhi Shajajin Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fi Al-Sama
Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Alameen
Wa Salatu Wa Salamul Atamanil Akmalani
Ala Khayri Khalqihi Ajma'ina Wa Ba'a
All praises due to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, complete blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
his wives, his entire household, all his companions, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all
and may Allah bless every single one of us and grant us all goodness.
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam, we are fortunate that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has given us the opportunity to listen to this Quran in the month of Ramadan,
to read the Quran and to be able to understand the message of the Quran to a certain extent
and to be able to expand the knowledge that we have of the Quran in this month of the Quran.
So take that as a gift of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and do not lose the opportunity to listen to the pure reading of the Quran
and to learn, to put into practice and to convey to others.
Yesterday we were looking at the birth, the most blessed birth that ever occurred
and that was the birth of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
the best of creation, the one whom Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala chose for us to be from his Ummah.
So indeed, we are very very fortunate and as we say, it's about time we knew a little bit more about his life sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
The place that was chosen for this birth was Makkatul Mukarramah.
It is the center of the earth. If you take a look at where it is, it is the center of the earth.
And there is the Kaaba that was built right at the beginning by Ibrahim a.s.w. together with Ismail a.s.w.
And throughout history it was rebuilt as and when the floods came in
and sometimes destruction was caused by fires and so on and it was rebuilt but exactly on the same spot.
We heard about the well of Zamzam yesterday, a very interesting story.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us goodness.
Very important to note that the person who saw Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam first,
it is reported that a person known as Ash-Shifa, Ummu Abdur Rahman ibn Awf,
the mother of Abdur Rahman ibn Awf, one of the narrations say that she was the midwife.
So obviously the midwife is the first one who takes the child and this is the great fortune of this particular lady,
the mother of Abdur Rahman ibn Awf who later on became one of the wealthiest of the Sahaba, that particular man.
Also what is of importance is Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam when he was born,
he did not have a father as we said yesterday.
His father had passed away already when he was seven months in the womb of his mother.
And from this we need to realize that Allah chose for the best of creation to be an orphan.
So no one who is an orphan here should think for a moment that that is a negative point.
It is one of the most positive points.
When a person does not have a father, Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala replaces that with so many other virtues,
so many other things, so many other people who take care and sometimes they may have a difficult upbringing
but Allah presents for them opportunities that he has not presented for others.
Look at this, the greatest leader of all, he was an orphan.
And not only that, in Islam the meaning of the term orphan is the child who does not have a father,
who lost his or her father, that is the orphan.
If someone has lost a mother, they are not termed as yateem in the Arabic language on condition that they still have the father.
But the minute they've lost the father, then they are considered yateem.
This is the Islamic interpretation of it, although from an English language perspective it is a little bit different.
So Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam's father passed away when he was 25 years old,
meaning the man himself Abdullah ibn Abdul Muttalib.
And as for what happened to him when he was born, his grandfather loved him so much because Abdul Muttalib,
who was the grandfather of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, had already had information,
as we said yesterday from various parties telling him you are going to be the grandfather of a child
who is going to really be a leader and so on.
So he took great care and he was very interested in this daughter-in-law,
or should I say the little grandchild that was born and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala placed in his heart love of this particular child,
although he was meant to die just a little while later.
So if we take a look, it's easy for us to say the mother looked after the child,
but the man who was behind the scenes was Abdul Muttalib, he was there.
And the mother looked after Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam together with her slave girl,
very important for us to know who was the slave girl.
Her name was Ummu Ayman.
Ummu Ayman Baraka binti Ta'alaba.
That was her name later to be known as Radhiallahu anha.
She was a slave girl from Africa and she was the slave of Amina binti Wahab.
Subhanallah.
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam says,
after my mother, I consider her a mother.
Allahu Akbar.
After my mother, I consider her a mother.
Ummu Ayman Radhiallahu anha.
She looked after the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Some narrations make mention of how she was a witness.
She also nursed Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
prior to him going to the clan of Banu Sa'ad
where he was nursed by Halimatu Sa'diyyah.
If we take a look at this, it is a great virtue.
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam being looked after by so many people.
And as he grew up, in fact, in his infancy,
there was a habit amongst the people of Mecca at the time,
Quraysh and the Arab clans and tribes that lived in the cities.
In the cities, people swear, they shout, they scream.
Perhaps the air is not that clean.
So they used to send their children to pure environment in the Bedouin villages.
And there was a village known as Badiyah to Banu Sa'ad.
Banu Sa'ad used to live there.
It was one of the top villages where people used to send their infants
to be breastfed with the pure milk.
And when we say pure milk, non-contaminated.
Today, subhanallah, we have a different type of contamination.
And that is the genetically modified food that we have.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us from food that is bad for us.
Sometimes we don't even know what is the content of what we are eating.
And we don't realize it is sometimes not fit for animal consumption.
Forget about human beings.
And still we're busy eating it.
And as they say in our language, just chow man.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding.
Food, it's up to us to make sure we are eating that which is halal
and that which is healthy.
So they used to send their children out to learn good language.
The language was powerful.
The manners, the mannerisms, the etiquettes.
And Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam, he was a little orphan.
They were waiting for the people to come from Banu Sa'ad
and from various other villages.
So when the people of Banu Sa'ad came,
there is a very, very interesting story.
Khadija binti, sorry, Haleematu al-Sa'diya,
who was ultimately taking Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
took him actually.
Initially when she was coming to Mecca al-Mukarramah,
she was riding with the rest of her colleagues
who were also going out to look for people whom they could look after
in their particular village from Quraysh.
And with that because they were poor,
they felt we would probably get a little bit of wealth from it.
And perhaps people might give us something.
And we might earn a little bit.
And we can even look after these children
and send them back to their folks after some time.
So Khadija, sorry, Haleematu al-Sa'diya,
she makes mention of something very interesting.
She says the donkey I was on got injured on its knee.
And it began to bleed.
And it was slow.
And it slowed down.
So myself and my husband, we arrived in Mecca
after the rest of them had arrived.
And they had already selected the babies they wanted to take.
The baby of the rich man, the baby of this man,
baby of this man, baby of that person,
baby of this elite and this elite.
And when she came, there was one child remaining.
Who was that?
This was the plan of Allah for the donkey to be delayed.
This is why we tell everyone,
when you are delayed, don't worry, Allah has a plan.
He knows why this has happened.
Just say Alhamdulillah.
Like they say, better late than never.
And in some cases they say, better late than the late.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah have mercy on some who have passed away.
I heard this morning that there were some youngsters
who had passed away in KwaZulu Natal.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant them Jannah.
They were granted a death in this particular month of Ramadan.
And we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to be pleased with them,
to forgive their shortcomings and to be pleased with all of us
and to also grant us a blessed death.
So she was delayed.
When she came, she saw this orphan child.
Now, no one wants to take an orphan child
because there's no father figure here.
Who is going to pay?
Who is going to, you know, be responsible and so on?
So she thought, let me quickly have a peep
or someone else.
If not, then she did not want to go back to her village
without anyone.
So instead of facing the others,
saying, you went all the way to Quraysh,
you came back without a child.
She then decided afterwards that,
okay, let me take this orphan child.
Allahu Akbar.
She makes mention later on.
And she says, we took the child
and immediately we started feeling blessings.
Jumped onto the donkey
and suddenly the donkey became strong.
And the wound of the donkey healed.
Allahu Akbar.
Weren't we talking about miracles?
The wound of the donkey healed.
And suddenly it was one of the stronger donkeys
and it was leading the pack.
And we arrived in Banu Sa'ad.
And to our amazement,
we found that the goats and the sheep that were there,
the milk within the udders was already so much
and we could never drink so much before.
And now there was a surplus of milk.
Subhanallah, something had happened.
We found, strangely, it began to rain also.
And what happened is, the flowers came out.
They began to blossom.
And the shrubberies and the little bushes
and so on began to come out.
A little bit of the greenery and so on.
And we were amazed.
And there was so much blessing.
She says, my breast milk was not enough for the one child.
And now there was so much
that that child also stopped crying
and this child also fed.
And this child was so amazing,
sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
that whenever he wanted to sleep,
he would look up into the skies
and then he would go to sleep.
And whenever I removed his clothes to bathe him,
he would cry until I clothed him once again.
Subhanallah, sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
And so many beautiful points she makes mention of.
She actually speaks of how the house was full of blessing
and how the entire badiyah,
the entire group of villages that was there,
was full of blessing.
And he was not a child who used to be like the ordinary children
fighting over small things.
He was very calm and relaxed.
And he grew up with the eloquence,
speaking powerful language
from the very, very early ages of his life.
Powerful language.
As I told you, Banu Sa'd were like the best.
They were the most sought after
for people to take the children away.
You know, there is a point I raised today
earlier on when I had a little radio program.
That look at how the kuffar of Quraysh
used to send their children away for benefit.
We sometimes feel so clingy upon our children
that we cannot send them in order to be a hafil
for a year or two.
And these people were ready to send them for dunya.
And they were ready to send them for morals and character.
We can't even part with our children sometimes.
And we haven't even inculcated in our children
how important it is sometimes
to actually be separated from the parents
in order for them to prepare for a day
when they won't have those parents.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
and grant us foresightedness.
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect our children
and make us parents who are always exemplary
making the right decisions.
So here, the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
being in this particular badiyah with these children
as he grew up, something happened.
What happened?
They used to play outside with the boys.
They used to play with what?
With the sheep and goats and so on.
You know, little children in a little village out there.
And they used to play.
And one day, his friend,
the one who was also his brother,
his foster brother,
the one who was being breastfed
by the same Haleematul Sa'diyah.
They were playing together
and two angels came down.
And the angels came down in white clothing.
This young boy, both of them saw the angels.
And the angels put Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
down on his back,
slit open his chest,
took out his heart
and this young boy began to run.
Run where?
He ran straight to Haleematul Sa'diyah
and he began to tell them what's going on.
In the meantime, the angels had taken out his heart.
They had brought a bowl, a golden bowl made of gold
with Zamzam in it.
For your information,
the Zamzam had started gushing just before that
because it was there from the time of Ismail alaihi wasallam
but it was clogged
and it was re-dugged by Abdul Muttalib
as we learnt yesterday.
And now the same water was being used to purify.
Purify the heart from what?
Jealousy, hatred, deception, pride
and all these bad qualities,
the quality of anger for the wrong reasons.
Remember, when we become upset,
we can become upset for the sake of Allah.
But a lot of the time,
it's just for our own selves.
Whereas Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam,
it is reported by Aisha radiallahu anha,
she says,
He never ever sought revenge for himself.
He didn't get angry because someone wronged him
but he always did so when someone obviously went against
the law and command of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
it would make him upset.
And whenever he sought revenge and retaliation,
it was solely for the sake of Allah,
not never for himself.
With us, sake of Allah, we can leave it to go by,
but for ourselves, we won't let it go by.
I'm going to fix him, whether now or tomorrow,
but you're going to see what I'm going to do to him.
Allah protect us.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala soften our hearts.
Remember, it's shaitan who wants you
to continue the circle.
You do, he does.
He does back, you do again and so on.
And it carries on and on for years on end,
just like the Jahiliyya.
So Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam was purified,
the heart was replaced,
a little vein was taken from the back,
just from the left side and the back,
and it was removed.
And this was as Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam
explains in one narration, he says,
you see shaitan is like a little frog
here on your left side.
Whenever you are engaged
in the remembrance of Allah,
shaitan is silent.
And the minute you are oblivious
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
he begins to whisper in your ear.
Starts whispering what?
Anything and everything
to start doing wrong and you know,
divulge you like people read Salah,
and you know a man reading Salah one day,
he says 250.
What do you mean 250?
Oh, okay, I mean Salah, sorry.
He was busy calculating what people owed him.
Allahu Akbar.
Because why? In Salah,
we busy thinking of everything else.
What am I going to do after Salah?
People are saying,
there's a bray on tonight,
this sheikh is taking too long, come on.
Taraweeh is finishing 9 o'clock, imagine.
And another 7 minutes for wither.
What's going on here, man?
Subhanallah.
That goes through our minds
because we are oblivious of Allah.
You take out that shaitan,
a little frog from there,
throw him out.
Allahu Akbar.
How do you throw him out?
By continuing to remember Allah.
Thank Allah.
He is giving you an opportunity
that you may never ever get again.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless us all and grant us goodness.
So when that vein was taken
and it is reported that
there was now a seal of prophethood there.
What was it?
It was a mark here,
a little like a pea,
the size of a small pea here
on his back.
And it had a few hairs,
like a mole we would say today.
It had a little bit of like a mark
and it had a few hairs that grew out of it.
Subhanallah.
And this was in a specific place on his back.
And Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
as Haleematu Sa'diyya and them
rushed out to see what was going on.
He was sitting there pale.
Everything was over obviously.
And they asked him what happened
and he narrated the story.
Now they got worried.
They were worried for his life.
Because you see even prior to this,
the grandfather was told so much.
The mother had a few signs here and there.
Not a direct piece of information.
Some people say the angel Jibreel
came to the mother.
No, that's wrong.
The angel Jibreel alayhi salatu wasalaam
did not come to the mother
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasalaam.
But there were other signs
which were lesser signs
to prove that this man
is going to be someone important.
You know like nowadays we see a youngster
very very intelligent.
We say watch this page.
Watch this space.
That's what some people say.
Look at this young boy.
He's going to be very important inshallah.
He's going to be a big man inshallah.
He's going to come and something inshallah
big will happen.
We're just guessing.
But in that case, no guessing.
It was something that was coming.
Sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
So they took him and what did they do?
They returned him.
They went back to Makkah.
And they saw the mother.
And they saw the grandfather.
And they said we are returning
this young boy.
But why?
No, we are busy.
We have this.
No, no, no.
Tell us the reason.
No, we have this excuse.
No, no, no.
Tell us why is it
that you are bringing this child back.
And then she says,
well this is what happened.
There was the angels
or someone came down.
They slipped the chest.
And there was a mark
that was left on the chest.
Subhanallah.
Which remained up to the end.
And Anas ibn Malik radiallahu anhu
says I used to see the mark
left by that cutting of the chest
from the angels.
Subhanallah.
Later on even in the life of Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
A little mark.
Sometimes we have operations.
And then you have the visible mark
for a long long time.
This only Allah knows exactly how it was.
But there was a mark.
Subhanallah.
So what could Amina do?
Binti Wahab.
She accepted her child back.
Looked after the child
with the assistance of whom?
With the assistance of Umm Aiman
who was her slave.
And she treated the child very well.
And subhanallah
it was something amazing.
They had a beautiful bond
and this lasted for a few years.
But before I get into
the death of the mother
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
Let me quickly make mention of something
regarding Iblis.
There is a narration that makes mention that Iblis
was moaning four times.
Moaning, groaning
even say crying four times.
He was very arrogant.
Shaytan, the devil, Satan.
Very arrogant.
He was very happy when he transgressed.
But when Allah cursed him
he moaned, number one.
He grunted, very upset.
Secondly, when he was removed from Jannah
he was again very upset.
Thirdly,
when Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam was born
again he moaned, groaned.
He was very upset again.
And the fourth one was
when Surah Al-Fatiha was revealed
it is reported that he moaned and groaned again.
So these were the four times when he moaned and groaned.
The term used in the Arabic language is
Ranna.
Ranna meaning he actually rang.
You know there was like a sound coming from him
so upset.
So these were the four times that Iblis
was very very upset.
And then if we take a look at
the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
as his mother
had relatives in Medina Munawwara
she used to go there
now and again.
The father had passed away in Medina Munawwara
and as I told you he also
had relatives there.
The mother went
and once on her way back
she passed away in a place called
Abwa.
And she was with her slave girl Um Muayman.
And Um Muayman took
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
looked after him,
cared for him, returned him to Makkah
and went straight to the grandfather
whose name was Abdul Muttali.
How old was Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam?
When his mother passed away.
He was six years old
according to the vast majority of narrations.
In fact mentioning the date
of birth which we haven't said yet.
I just realized we haven't said it yet.
There are several narrations as to
the precise date of birth.
But the majority, the vast
majority say it was the 12th
of Rabi' al-Awwal.
12th of Rabi' al-Awwal.
Which year was it?
Now at that time they did not use to
work things out by years
as in one, two, three from
the beginning of time or so on.
But a major incident
that occurred, they used
to work around it. Up to today
the Christian calendar works around
some major incident that occurred.
The Hijri calendar works around
the Hijra. So at that time the
major incident that really
bewildered everybody was the incident
of the elephants.
So he was born in the same year
that that had happened. So it was called
Aam al-Feel, the year of the elephant.
And I told you
the correct narration is that there was
one elephant, not a whole army of elephants.
One elephant. And this is mentioned
even in the Quran, al-Feel,
one elephant. So if we look
at this, he was born the year
of the elephant, 12th
of Rabi' al-Awwal. And thereafter
let's go back to
where Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam's
mother passed away when he was 6 years old.
Ummu Ayman took him back
to the grandfather. The grandfather
loved him so much.
And the grandfather treated him better
than all the other children, so much so
he had 11 sons,
Abdul Muttalib.
And he had, as we mentioned
yesterday, a place just near the Kaaba
upon the shade of the Kaaba.
He had a little carpet laid
for him, or should we say a little
sitting place. When we say carpet
we're thinking of this proper carpet
that is laid here. No, a different type
of a carpet of that particular time,
something to sit on. And that belonged to
him, no one dare sit on it.
But when Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
now, he was a young boy,
above the age of 6, between 6 and 8
years old. And he used to crawl
there quietly, and he used to get onto it
and the uncles used to try and get him
off it. And the grandfather used to say, no,
let him sit there. And they were like amazed.
This young, youngsters sitting
there, we are not even allowed to sit on there.
But the grandfather used to say,
this young boy is going to be a leader.
He's going to be someone
great, sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
And he continued to
say things of this nature. And the
grandfather
fell ill at one stage.
And when the Prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam was 8 years old,
the grandfather passed away.
It was a very sad day. Take
a look, an orphan, with
no father. Then the mother passes
away. Thereafter,
the grandfather passes away. So he
is being shifted from one to the
other. He has tasted the
sadness in his early life.
Or should I say, the loss of loved ones.
How many of us have lost loved
ones? If you have lost loved
ones, remember one thing. It is
not a sign of the wrath of Allah sallallahu
wa ta'ala. It's a sign if you are
to accept and digest,
a sign of a gift of Allah sallallahu
wa ta'ala upon you. Because he has
favored Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
with the same gift. And even
more. So we are
taught that in life,
you won't always have everything
rosy. No! Today we heard
a beautiful verse that was recited in
Taraweeh.
You will
definitely hear a lot of
bad words. You will have
to bear a lot regarding
the statements of those who are
polytheists and the people of the book.
And this is why as Muslimin,
Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala tells us
if you bear patience, then that is the best
thing you could do. Today,
people laugh at us. You want to grow a beard,
you want to wear your hijab, you want to dress
as a Muslim, you want to fulfill your
Salah. Anything to do with the
religion. You want to be a Muslim.
And the people around you make it difficult
for you. May Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala
safeguard us. So we were not promised that
you are going to have a simple, easy
go life. But you will have
tests upon tests. The more tests
you have, the more opportunities for you to
pass. The more you pass, the greater
the rank you will have in Paradise. So
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam had the highest
rank and he achieved it in many
different ways. Chosen by Allah
sallallahu wa ta'ala and his reaction
was the best reaction possible
for those particular difficulties
that he had gone through. Look,
lost a father, lost a mother,
lost a grandfather. And thereafter,
what happened?
Well, his uncle took
over. Which uncle? Abu Talib.
And Abu Talib had other children
as well. Abu Talib was
a young uncle of his.
And he had
so many other children, he used to look after
them. But he loved this
little nephew. He loved him so much.
Allah placed the love in the heart
of the
uncle and the grandfather before
him. Sometimes you look at a child
and you cannot help
but love the child. The way they talk
to you. The way they look at you.
The way they carry themselves. Subhanallah.
It's placed by Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala.
And sometimes you look at someone
and you just want to look away
because of the way they act and they behave
and the way they carry themselves and
so on. So it's Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala
who really does that
where He puts it in your heart to love
and He puts it in your heart to turn away.
So this uncle,
he noticed that he didn't
have much wealth. But ever since
he began to look after this young
boy, there was so much blessing, so much
baraka. And he
found that he watched the
children as they ate. When
the little children came to eat all his own
children, they would all go and try and snatch
the best of pieces of food and so on.
And this young boy came, he sat, he waited
and he knew that what was a
portion for him, he would get it so he
waited and then he would take
like an adult already from that
age. Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala
had
this perfect upbringing for
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
But perfect from which angle?
Not from the angle of him having a father
and a mother and so on and so forth, but
his credentials were never dented
from the very beginning. From infancy,
nothing to say this
man is a liar, he's a cheat, he had
bad manners, morals, he was
wrong in this way, that way, he had bad company
never ever. Subhanallah.
He was powerful from
that early age already, preparation
for sending him to the people of Makkah
in a way that they won't have
a response unless
they are to accept. That is
the only response they could have had.
Anything else would be out of their arrogance
because they know the man and they
know him from his birth and they
know how high in character,
conduct and morals he always was.
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi
wa sallam grew up in this
house full of
humbleness, humility
and he used to go out to look after
the sheep
and the goats.
And we made mention of this very briefly
yesterday, but I'd like to repeat it.
Sheep and goats,
all the Prophets of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala looked after these
and some of the
benefits were to instill
within this human being
who was being prepared to come out
as a Prophet, lots of patience.
With animals you need
so much patience because you can't even
talk to them. Subhanallah.
And thereafter, humbleness,
humility because
you've got to do so much and you
are down to earth, your clothes
are messed, sometimes you have to clean,
sometimes you walk over that which is
unclean and so on. And a lot
of humbleness is also achieved
by this. And at the same
time you will find that
over and above the patience
and the humbleness there is dedication.
When one little animal is
out, away from the rest of the flock,
you find the shepherd will always
make an effort to go and get it.
You don't just leave one. And then
you develop a link with these animals.
And even though you cannot
communicate properly with them,
they understand you to a certain extent
and you begin to understand them.
Then you lose one. One might die,
a few might die, something might happen
to one and the other one, something else
might happen to it, one may be stolen
and so on. All this is part of the training
with full humbleness
and humility.
With us, when
someone tries to put us into a difficult
situation, we get upset,
we get angry, not realizing, ya Allah!
You are the one who chose this for me.
Perhaps you are preparing me for something
greater. Perhaps there is something
to come in my life that you have
now made easy for me from
the training that I'm receiving
now. May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant
us ease. So
Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi
wa sallam,
he was taken by
his uncle, sometimes
on some of the journeys
that they went
with the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam.
And they used to have, as we mentioned,
rihlatul shita'i wa al-saifi.
So when they were coming down
to Yemen once,
they were coming down to Yemen
in the winter with
a caravan.
And what happened is, Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wa sallam was a young man,
young boy, in his early
teens.
And as they settled
down in one area, a huge
camel came charging
for the whole group. And they
all scattered and went away. And
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam was standing there
alone. And as it
came, he just stood there. Everyone
had run. And when it came to
him, it stopped, suddenly.
It sat down.
And Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam put his
hand on it
and calmed it down.
And then jumped on it and rode
it to where they were. They were shocked.
Subhanallah. What a sign.
This man has calmed down
even the animal. Do you know
there is a story of Fudala.
Fudala was a man who intended
to kill Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
in Hunayn. And what did he do?
He was one of the Bedouin Arabs who was
a marksman, sharp man.
He took a
a pointed knife which was
jagged, which would slit anyone.
And there, they had no value
for life of people.
Especially at war.
So Hunayn was later on in the
time of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam's life. It is
reported that 11 times they tried
to murder him. And 11 times Allah
sallallahu alaihi wa sallam saved him.
So one of the times, Fudala
what did he do? He pretended
to be a Muslim and he joined the Muslim army
in Hunayn. And he
was waiting, waiting for which opportunity.
When I see a good opportunity
I'll slit this man's belly open and it's
over. So as he went
Nabi sallallahu alaihi wa sallam turned and looked at him.
Fudala. Nabi sallallahu
alaihi wa sallam put his hand on the chest
of Fudala and looked in his eyes.
And do you know what happened? Fudala
says, instantly my
heart was filled with love
for this man, instantly,
instantaneously. And he
says, he asked me, he says
Oh Fudala, what is
it that you want?
So he says astaghfirullah. Obviously
now he's repenting here. What is
it you want? He said Ya Rasulallah
I came with the intention
to kill you but I bear witness that
there is none worthy of worship besides Allah
and you are indeed a messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wa sallam. Imagine.
This was a story that happened later on
in the life of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam.
So the animals also
subhanallah. In fact, so
much so, it brings tears to the eyes
when we think of a hadith where
the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam says
إِمِّ لَأَعْرِفُ حَجَرًا بِمَكَّةَ
كَانَ يُسَلِّمُ عَلَيْهِ
He says, I actually know a
rocking Makkah that used to greet me.
Allahu Akbar. The
rocking Makkah used to greet him
sallallahu alaihi wa sallam.
May Allah
grant us the ability
to understand how fortunate we are
to be following such a powerful message
of the most powerful of all messengers.
Many of us take it for granted.
It's about time we did something about it
and it's about time we learn. This is the man
through whom inshallah we will be
entering Jannah. He has been granted the
power to intercede. May Allah grant that to us.
And we would like
for us to be recognized on that day
as part of his Ummah.
So the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
on another journey when he was going up
to Asham, the Syrian region as
we would call it today. But not only
the country of Syria, it would include Lebanon
as well as Palestine and some areas
there. When they were heading up north
they used to stop at a certain monastery
with the caravans. And when they
stopped at one monastery, what happened is
amazing.
The monk never
ever came out to meet these people.
His name was Bahira
or Buhira, depending on how you want to
pronounce it. He never used to come out
but that day
he saw something and he came out
to greet them. And he started greeting
them and he asked who is this man? Who is
this young boy? And they told him this and this
so he called the guardian and he said
watch this young boy. Be
careful. He is going to be someone
and be careful. Be careful of
the Jews. This is his statement. It's mentioned
in the books of history because they are a very
jealous nation.
This is what he says himself, the monk.
And thereafter
he decided to go in and prepare a meal
and so on. And when they were preparing a meal
everyone sat down
and he says where is this young boy?
They said no he is out there with the animals. Call him
call him. And as they called him
something strange happened. What happened?
Everyone was already sitting in the shade
of the tree.
And the monk noticed that when
this young boy came there was no shade left
so he sat down and the
tree turned. Slightly
and it shaded him.
And he says look at this. Look at this.
It's a sign.
This is the young boy.
This is the boy. He will be sent one day.
Now the details are coming out.
This was the first incident
where there was one of the most direct
pointers at this
young man being a messenger
of Allah. For your information
this was one of the first incidents
or the first incident
where there was a direct pointer
in that particular direction.
And this was by a monk.
And this is why we say the people of
the book, not all of them
had changed the books and so on. There were
some who were honest. Like Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala has mentioned in the Quran
that some of those they believed
they did not hide the verses
and they said it
outward, openly. Like we will see
later on Waraka bin Naufal as well
was one of those who uttered the truth.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
So this was also a sign.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
has blessed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi
wa sallam, the monk told
Abu Talib to
take this young boy away.
He says take this young boy away.
Let him
go back. Make sure that he comes
back and look after him
carefully. Don't let him travel
towards the Roman Empire
up to the Byzantine Empire. No,
he shouldn't go there. If the Romans get hold of him
they perhaps will kill him because they wouldn't
want a messenger to come from amongst
the Arabs.
All the messengers have been from them so far.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protected
him and he was returned to Makkatul
Mukarrama and thereafter safeguarded
all the time. So much so that when he took
part in building the Kaaba
and he had his back open and
so on, his uncle told him to cover his
back. Subhanallah. So that he could
be protected from the stones. But one of the
underlying reasons was also the
signs would not be seen by others
because he had to be
preserved. Sallallahu alayhi
wasallam. Little did they know that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala is the
protector. May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect every single one of us.
I'd like to go back to the story of Ummu
Ayman.
Very very important person in the Seerah of
Muhammad Sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
When he married Khadija binti Khuwailid
radiallahu anha, she still looked after him
meaning she was still serving him.
And he decided to free her at the time
because he inherited her from the mother,
from his own mother. And he freed her
and later on when Islam
started and Nubu, a prophet who
came, one of the first people to accept
Islam, it is reported she was
one of the first women after Khadija
binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha
was Ummu Ayman. She was working
with Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, a woman
from Africa who was a slave, who
was freed. Listen very carefully,
brings tears to the eyes. She accepted
the message of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
you are definitely a prophet
of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. I've
watched you from the moment you were born
and I know what's going on. And she
outlived Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Later on in the life of
Ummu Ayman radiallahu
anha, the prophet sallallahu alayhi
wasallam decided to make an announcement.
What did he say? Whoever
wants to marry a woman from
Jannah, they should marry
Ummu Ayman. Imagine.
Whoever wants to marry a woman
from Jannah should marry Ummu Ayman.
This woman who was married
before, she was the mother of
Ayman. She had had a child before
previously. On top of that she was
a slave. On top of that she was from
Africa. On top of that she looked after
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, he freed her.
And now he is saying whoever
wants to marry a woman from Jannah
should marry Ummu Ayman.
And who got up and married her?
None other than
and the most beloved to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Zayd ibn Haritha.
He was much younger than her.
Much younger than her. He married
her. And who did she give
birth to? She is the mother of
Usama bin Zayd radiallahu anha.
One of the youngest leaders of the
Muslim armies. She is the mother
Ummu Ayman. And where did she pass
away? She passed away later on
in Madina Munawwara and is
buried in Baqi' radiallahu anha
wa'anis sahabiyati
wa'anis sahabiyati ajma.
May Allah be pleased with all the sahaba radiallahu
anhum. They sacrificed their lives.
And look at these people. It is
reported that Zayd ibn
Haritha was very very white in
complexion. And Usama bin Zayd was
very dark in complexion. So much so
that people used to accuse
the child of being not from this particular
father until one day they
were sleeping in the masjid. And
the two feet were sticking out of the other side of
the cover, the sheet. And one mudlaji
a person who was an expert in lineage
he came and as he's walking past
he didn't know the story. He looked at
the feet and he says
These feet, some of them
belong to the other. They are part of
one and the same. So everyone
was relieved to say Subhanallah.
People used to say things. So the
complex sometimes it comes from the lineage
from the family. His mother was from
Africa. Allahu Akbar. May
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us.
May we be from amongst those who
understand and realize, look
at where we are today. Sometimes
we go backwards and yet Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam making
a beautiful announcement.
And this was Ummu Ayman.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless her.
Now Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
when he was young, he took
part in several
incidents, several great matters
that occurred. One of them was known as
Hilful Fudul. The
pledge that was
pledged in one of the houses in Makkah
al-Mukarramah. Let me give you a quick synopsis
of what happened. There was a
man from Yemen who had come up to Makkah
and he was known as Zabidi
because he was from those people of Zabid.
So this Zabidi man,
he had come with a bit of
merchandise and so on and he was dealing
with a man known as Al-Aas ibn Wa'il,
the father of Amr ibn Al-Aas.
Al-Aas ibn Wa'il died as a non-Muslim
but Amr ibn Al-Aas was a great Sahabi
and we know he was one of those who conquered Egypt.
And this
Al-Aas ibn Wa'il cheated
this Zabidi out of his wealth
because this Zabidi wanted to go
out to the Kaaba and do his
tawaf and what have you with the idols
and whatever it was. So he left this wealth
with Al-Aas ibn Wa'il.
And when he came
back, the man says, there's nothing for you here.
What do you mean? I gave you all my wealth?
You're telling me there's nothing for me here?
So he started calling out.
Now Al-Aas ibn Wa'il was one of the seniors
in Quraysh.
No one dared take his name.
And if this man had gone to
people to tell them anything, they wouldn't believe.
Anyway, he did go to a few people
and say, Al-Aas ibn Wa'il has stolen
my wealth. And they said, what are you
talking about? That can never be. This is one of
the noblemen here. So
he says, no, he has stolen
my wealth. And he went, nobody
helped him and in fact he was
oppressed because his wealth was usurped
by the people of Quraysh. There was one way
he was going to achieve assistance.
He had eloquence of the tongue. This is Zabidi.
He got up, Jabal Abi Qubais.
He got up one of the mounds there
near Kaaba and he started
singing his poems.
What were the poems? The poems
were making mention of how Quraysh
stole his wealth.
And how Al-Aas ibn Wa'il has
stolen his wealth and they are thugs and
robbers and they're all in kahoot and so
on. And he started singing some poems
and you know, I told you yesterday,
they were crazy about poetry.
A man's status would raise
because of poetry. And a man
would be considered a
leader and a chief because he came with something
powerful. This man came with
powerful words that lasted up to today.
For your information, they were all
negative about Quraysh and about
what had happened. So they wanted to do
set things right because they did not
want that. They did not want that
to go down in history.
So what did they do?
Well,
very interestingly, a few of them got
together. And one of them was
Az-Zubayr ibn Abd al-Muttalib.
You see Abd al-Muttalib,
the leader of Quraysh, his son,
one of the uncles of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam, he got together five of
the different families and
their leaders, five of the leaders. And
what he said? He said, look, we need
to do something. This man has sung, meaning
he has recited a poem here and that's
going to go down. We are going to go down
as people who are robbers. We need to
agree on something.
Now Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam was also
invited as one of the members.
And he was a young man,
it's reported he was in his 20s.
And
he went in and he was
invited to witness this
great treaty of human rights.
What was it? It was known as
Hilful Fudul,
the pledge of the virtuous.
What was the pledge of the virtuous?
They agreed that we will all
unite to help
the one who is oppressed. That was
the main treaty, the main
point of that whole treaty. All of us
will unite and we will help
the one who is oppressed and we
will challenge or fight
the one who is the oppressor.
Allahu Akbar. Later on Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam says, I attended
a treaty, a covenant
in the period of ignorance
in the house of Abdullah ibn
Jad'an. That was the house in which it occurred.
If I was called to something
similar to that today, I would go back
and I would sign a similar treaty.
Subhanallah. So the
house of Abdullah ibn Jad'an was chosen.
He was a man, we mentioned him
yesterday. He was from a
very poor background
but he found some treasures and he
kept those treasures and that made him rich
and he used to help people a lot. So
they called this covenant in
his house and they agreed.
And then they went on to al-Aas ibn
Wa'il knocking his door. And when
he flung the door open, he notices
these five people and they asked him
where is the wealth of this zabidi?
He says hang on, here it is.
Amazing. Look at how powerful.
So it needs us to unite
against oppression. As we said
yesterday, you allow it to happen, it will continue
happening. But someone somewhere
somehow needs to stop it. May Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala protect us all.
So this is why Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala has mentioned to us
in the Quran as well.
Don't ever let the fact
that you dislike a people
make you oppress
them. Always be just
for indeed that is the closest
to piety. So you don't like
some people, so you lie about them.
You don't like people, so you make life difficult
for them. You don't like people, so you want to
fight them. Allah says no. Even if you don't like
people, be just because that is
piety. May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us justice. So this was
as far as Hilful Fuzul went.
And this is the covenant that we were
speaking about. One of the things
that Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam had attended
and he was known as an honest
man. He was protected by
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
in his youth from attending
the parties and so on that
the youth used to attend. There is
narration mentioned of one incident where
he was with the flock
of sheep that he was looking after
and there was a wedding in the city
so he told his friend, look please can you
look after this. I am going out tonight
I need to attend the wedding or when
he went there
there was a lot of
wrong things happening, dance
and so on with different types
of beat of the drum and music
and so on. And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
wanted to protect Muhammad
salallahu alayhi wasalam
so Allah made him yawn and
made him sleepy so he slept
and he did not take part in it. So he
had gone there but he slept away.
And the next day he went there
and he slept. The third day he went
there, he slept. And he comes back to
the shepherd and the shepherd says, but what did you do?
He says, I did nothing. And he realizes
that this is protection of
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and then he promised saying, I will
never ever attend any
functions of this nature. Never.
So that was the first and the last.
Subhanallah. May Allah
strengthen us as well. Wallahi
if we want to correct
our weddings in Islam
as Muslims and we want them
to stop being functions
of earning the pleasure of the
devil rather than earning the pleasure
of Allah, all we need to
do is don't go. That's it.
If half the community don't go
everybody will change because they now
know, I must have a separate function.
I must make sure that there is no music
playing here and I must make sure that
everything is Sharia compliant here because
the community is not going to come.
But we are collectively guilty
of supporting such filth and for that
reason, a great act of worship
known as Nikah, an act
of worship of the celebration of such
a great act of worship, the Walima
which is a second act of worship.
We attend it
and our own girls and boys
are dressed in a way that would be such
an embarrassment people may mistaken them
for prostitutes. May Allah protect us.
It's a fact. I have pressed a red button
because it's going on today.
May Allah SWT save
us. Really. There is no point
in attending. Even if they've got a little
commentary box in the corner separately
for Ulama. You don't attend that.
That's an insult to the Ummah. How
can they be? The Muslims are in that little corner.
The rest of us are having a ball of a time
as they say a jaul.
Allah protect us. I don't
even know what that means. We've just heard it from people.
Hey, we had a fun, man.
It was lack of man. You know the
language we use? May Allah SWT
save us. Really. What was nice?
There was one uncle who had attended
a function and he said hey, there was a
smoke screen and you know the way the
man parachuted down and the way this
happened and that happened and it was mixed
total and it was free for all.
And they're saying, but brother, you have such a big
beard. MashaAllah. What were you doing?
He scratched his head. Two seconds he said, well
if I wasn't there, who was going to tell you what happened?
Allahu Akbar.
Look at the excuses shaitan makes us
have. May Allah SWT
save us.
So as we were saying, you want to solve a
problem, it can. But we need to be collectively
ready to solve
a matter. And remember one thing.
Do not compromise when it comes to
Don't try and show people I had a bigger function
and this function. Simple function
even if you have invited just ahead
from all of the homes and that's it.
Believe me, the more simple the function,
the more blessed it is. Today,
one of the reasons why divorce is almost
60% and marital
problems are beyond 90%
of marriages. Why? Because
the seed we sowed was the seed of a
cactus and then we expect apples.
Allahu Akbar. May Allah SWT
forgive us. Obviously
every time I say something of this nature, I see
everybody's looking at me like they want to eat
me up, you know. What you saying? Because we've
already married and we did all these things.
Well, there is always room for tawbah.
Always room to ask Allah for forgiveness.
That will clean your slate
once again. Say, Allah, we did it wrong.
Forgive us, but we will make sure we don't do
it wrong for our children no matter what.
Don't try and be proud to show people
hey, I've got a bigger wedding and this. No.
You can have whatever size
you want, but make sure it is compliant
and it achieves the pleasure of Allah.
That is the day of happiness. We want the
marriage to work.
May Allah SWT bless us all.
So the Prophet,
SAW,
as he grew up, he was known as an honest
man. I mentioned the one incident where he
attended this function and he promised never
to go back to those functions again.
Another incident was where
they wanted in a place known as Buwana,
they used to have a little
festival where they used to worship their idols
and the Prophet, SAW,
from his infancy and childhood
never ever worshiped
idols. Never ever. Not once.
And he always had something
against these idols because it's just
like Ibrahim, SAW, recognized
at an early age, what's this
thing here? It can't even help. He went
to speak to those idols, Ibrahim, SAW,
and you know, no
response. So Muhammad, SAW,
once refused to
go to Buwana where they
were worshiping the idols or
he refused to worship the idols and
his uncle was very upset with him.
And so in his
mind he thought what should I do and so on
in the interim Allah, SAW,
sent an angel to block him.
And immediately he realized that I'm never
going to do this. Never ever.
SAW,
from that early age he used to wonder,
he used to think, all these
people, they are engaged in
so much filth and activity that
is really against the Maker.
They're worshiping sticks and stones. They're treating
their women unfairly. They are usurping
wealth of people. They are doing this and that.
And he used to try and think of solutions.
And he was always truthful, honest,
although a lot of those around him
used to have a few lies here and there.
May Allah SWT protect us.
So he was known from an
early age, Allah's planning,
as As-Sadiqul Ameen.
The truthful, the trustworthy.
You couldn't trust him with anything.
He was known as that. So this news
began to spread. And when it spread,
it got to the business people of
Makkah. From amongst them was a woman.
Her name was Khadija Binti
Khuwailid, later to be known as
Radiyallahu Anha. She was
a middle-aged woman who was
married twice before and had
had a child known as Hala.
So what had happened?
Khadija Binti Khuwailid
Radiyallahu Anha heard that
this particular man in Makkah, known
as Muhammad, very honest man.
And very trustworthy.
His character is one of the
best, the best in Makkah.
So she invited him
to do business on her
behalf. She was a woman. She
would stay in Makkah. But he could go
up to a Sham and come
down. That was Allah's planning. Why?
When you're going up to Sham
in the Syrian region, you pass
Madinah Munawwarah. And the Prophet SAW
became acquainted with Madinah
and its people from a very early age.
Did we ever know that? And he already
passed there and he would go, stop
over, continue, go up and so on.
Literally today, we call it
a container business. Nowadays
we have a ship coming from MashaAllah
China and Hong Kong and Taiwan. It's a ship.
It comes and it docks in Durban and then we
busy following it by phone. And we've got
this agent and that agent. This, at
that particular time, this was equivalent
to the containers that people of this
part of the world are acquainted to
or acquainted with. So
Muhammad SAW used to go
with the caravans. And
Khadija RA, at that
time, she sent her slave
known as Maysara
with Muhammad SAW.
And she said, you go with him.
And he noticed this man respected
him. Imagine a slave. People, today
we treat our, those who
work for us are not even slaves. They are
free like me and you. And
we treat them so badly. We swear,
we shout, we overburden them
and we tell them so much and we still call
ourselves followers of Muhammad SAW.
What a shame. We are insulting
our religion. People, you know
when they go back to their villages
after, when the holidays are there,
they sit and they discuss, oh I work in Nirvana.
Where's that? Oh it's in Polokwani.
You know I work for these Muslims.
They can swear. They shout. You know
the uncle wanted to beat me also.
And all of them get a bad picture of
Islam. Do we know that? And the same
people when they sit around a fire in the village
at the month end or at the end of the year
and they say, you know what? We have
Muslims. They look after us. They respect
us. They don't give us food that
is fit for the bin. But they give us a portion
of what they've cooked. Allah
Akbar.
Allah Akbar. Wallahi I'm not lying to you.
These are facts. Muhammad SAW
treated Maysara who was a slave
with utmost respect, dignity.
A man afforded the
credentials. Subhanallah. He was
given whatever a man deserves.
And at the same time, honesty.
No usurping. Imagine you've got millions
of rands. You and someone else say, you know
what? Just don't say anything. You take some, I take
some. That doesn't happen inshallah amongst
Muslimin. But there's a lot of people who do
do that. May Allah SWT
safeguard us. Muhammad SAW did not
do that. Honesty. Every cent.
Every little coin was
accounted for. And so much
blessing in business. When the
caravan used to come back with Muhammad SAW
The Prophet was
so much. There was so much blessing.
Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha.
She had a friend.
Her friend was known as Nafisa binti
Munabbi. And she tells her friend,
hey, you know what? This guy here
is worth getting married to. Man. What a man.
Look at him. Honest.
The slave has come back to me. And he says
this man is of high
morals and standards. The highest I've ever seen.
And the man is full of respect
and dignity. Everyone. Honest.
He doesn't even usurp
a single fraction of the wealth.
So she
went to him one time. You see
the women sometimes they have guts. You see?
So she went to him and she suggested
hey, what's happening here? You see?
Now look at this woman. Older
than him by quite a bit. Married
twice. And both of the husbands
passed away. One after the other.
You know in our community there's a widow.
Only Allah knows how we look at her.
Yet the hadith speaks about the lofty rank
of those who support widows and orphans.
A sa'i. The one who
supports widows and orphans is
equivalent to the one who stands
in salah all night, every night.
And the one who fasts all day, every day.
That's the reward.
So this widow
she sends, or this friend
went to say this. And he
after a while, whatever he may have done
he felt a little bit positive about it.
And he spoke to his
uncle. It is reported
that he spoke to Abu Talib. It is also
reported that he spoke to Hamza.
And Hamza went with him
to Khadija.
And her family.
And they
made a proposal in what we would
call, they became engaged
so to speak. They agreed that we
would get married. And the marriage was
then attended by
Abu Talib himself. And a
few others. And in such a little
while they were married. For your information today
we have engagements. In Islam
there is nothing like these engagements.
If you look at it, what is
an engagement in Islam? It is
just the mere confirmation
that these two will be getting
married. That's all.
Nothing else. Today we have a big function
bigger than the waleema is an engagement.
And after that what happens?
It was broken.
You see that guy was a rascal. We didn't
know. We found out later. Why?
Because you did it the wrong way.
You don't need a big engagement. Get the
nikah done as simple and straight forward
and inshallah let them start living
together. An engagement the way
we do it today where a year later we
have a nikah. That one year we only
allow them to engage in sin. That's all that
happened. Nothing else. Nothing positive
can come out of a prolonged
engagement. I see some of the youngsters
are smiling. Perhaps this is a good point
for their fathers. May Allah SWT
make it easy for us as parents.
You don't need to wait. Allah has provided for you
and Allah has given you. Make it easy
for them. So Rasulullah SAW
thereafter
got married to Khadija Binti Khuwailid
RA. And
she was much older.
The narrations
that are
most common make mention of his
age and her age. His age was
25 years old when he got married
according to everyone. And her
age was 40 years
according to the majority. Some say
that she was 28 years old.
This is obviously just a narration. I'm making mention
of it for you to know that there is
a narration of that. But we
all know that the vast
majority say she was 40 years old.
She was already divorced. Sorry. She was
already widowed twice
and this was her third husband.
And this was his first wife.
And he married her and
he did not marry any other woman
whilst she was alive.
RA. And for your
information, those who say he was a
pedophile, I seek refuge with Allah. Those who say
he was full of lust and desires,
not at all. If that was
the case, at this young age of 25,
he would have chosen the best
of girls of the whole of Quraish.
As it is, he had a very lofty
name in Quraish. But
he decided to go for someone who was mature.
And it was Allah's plan because
for your information, Allah had
already made Khadija
Binti Khuwailid with qualities that were
needed in order to
comfort Muhammad SAW
the day revelation came.
So this was all the plan of Allah
SAW. So
Rasulullah SAW married
her and she is the one who
bore his children
and he had six children
from Khadija Binti Khuwailid RA.
Two boys. They both passed
away. One died in childhood.
His name was Al-Qasim.
Childhood meaning not infancy.
But they say he could jump onto
an animal. He could jump
onto the horse or the camel.
And at that age, he passed away.
Al-Qasim.
And this is why he is also known as
Abu Al-Qasim SAW.
And the other one,
his name was Abdullah. He passed away
in infancy. Imagine
those who've lost children, even Muhammad SAW
has lost children. And here
you have both of his boys
lost. Later
on, there was another boy by Mario Al-Qibtiya.
We will get to that inshallah. Ibrahim.
He was also lost.
But this was all prior to prophethood.
And he had four girls.
Zainab, Ruqayya,
Umm Kulthum
and Fatima.
May Allah be pleased with all of them.
They lived. When he came with
prophethood, they accepted Islam.
When they all
made Hijra as well. May Allah
SAW bless us all.
May Allah SAW grant us
goodness from the Seerah. This
is only a tip of the iceberg
inshallah. We hope that Allah
SAW increases the love
we have in our hearts for Muhammad SAW
in a way that
it can be seen on our physical
features and faces. And in a way
that inshallah will result ultimately
in us earning Jannah through
obeying the instructions that
were from Allah SAW that came to
us through Muhammad SAW.
Until we meet again tomorrow to continue
this episode, we say,
wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad
subhanallah wa bihamdihi, subhanaka
allahum wa bihamdik, nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta
nastaghfiruka wa natubu inayki